CartInterface tool

BUILD

This is built using:
   Raspberry Pi PICO
   2.54mm 2x4 header socket
   four 10K resistors
   perfboard or similar substitute for a breadboard
   small project box

The code is built and uploaded to the PICO using the Arduino IDE.

You must have the correct board files installed, using the 
Board Manager. It is Earle F Philhower III's Raspberry Pi Pico/RP2040/RP2350 
which allows you to select the board as Raspberry Pi Pico/RP2040/RP2350
with the subchoice of Raspberry Pi Pico

This board file contains the Adafruit TinyUSB library thus you can't also 
have the Adafruit library itself installed. Check in the library manager
for Adafruit TinyUSB Library and remove it if it is installed.

Finally, after you set the IDE to the Raspberry Pi Pico, you select on the 
Tools menu of the IDE the choice of USB stack to be Adafruit Tiny USB

Holding down the white BOOTSEL button on the PICO, plug the USB cable into
the PC running the Arduino IDE. A virtual disk opens up with INFO_UF2.TXT 
and INDEX.HTM files visible. Now you push the Upload button on the IDE to
have it compile the code and load it onto the PICO. 

Disconnect the PICO and install it on the perfboard to complete the wiring
between the PICO, four resistors and the header socket.

The KiCAD schematic shows the wiring of the perfboard. You are looking from
the top in the schematic, with the 2x4 socket mounted at the top and the 
PICO mounted below so that the USB cable will exit downward when looking
at the perfboard.

For convenience, put this in a project box with the 2x4 header socket at the 
front top and the USB cable exiting from the bottom of the box. 

USE

Holding the project box so that the 2x4 header socket is at the top when
you look at it, plug in the mini cartridge with the image of the 2315
(PCB) facing upwards. 

Take the USB cable and plug it into a PC. The drive should open showing the
FAT32 file system on the microSD card and the file which contains the virtual
2315 cartridge image. It will have a name like xxxxx.dsk and is formatted 
for the Virtual 2315 Cartridge Facility (V2315CF) to use.

That file can be copied over to the PC where you can convert it to the
file format used by IBM 1130 simulators - the application is convert2315.exe 
which will ask you for the source file (xxxxx.dsk) and then a location 
(on the PC) where the converted file should be stored. The file will also
have a .dsk suffix, but it is in the 1130 simulator (simH) format. 

You can use the showsector.exe program to display the contents of a sector
of the disk image - from a file in the V2315CF format. 

The converted file can be used with an IBM 1130 simulator to access with
1130 software. A disk file that is changed on the simulator, or any valid
2315 disk image in 1130 simulator format, can be converted back to the
V2315CF format using the convert1130.exe application, selecting the
1130 format file first and then choosing a name for the converted
V2315CF format file second. 

The file in V2315CF format can be copied onto the mounted disk 
from the CartInterface box to replace the  prior disk file there. 
You can only have one xxxxx.dsk file on the microSD card as the 
V2315CF will just open the first one it finds, thus if the name
has changed then you must delete the old xxxxx.dsk file on the
mini cartridge. 

Use the Eject function of Windows to properly unmount the microSD
card file system before unplugging it. The mini cartridge can
now be plugged into the V2315CF main box and loaded in order
for the physical IBM 1130 system to access the new disk image. 
